Absurd Stories That Went... Simply Absurd

Dear Bamby Cahyadi,

We have received your latest book entitled 'Kisah Muram Di Restoran Cepat Saji', and have had a close-reading session of it, then round it with a reviewing jam afterward. We had hoped that the jam that comes up from the CR is a nice jam session between writer and coleagues, yet it turns out to be a kind of traffic jam that usually occured in Jakarta at evening time ( we chose evening for the sakes of blurred out theme that is apt with the sense we felt from reading your latest book).

what's with the traffic jam? Well, it's from the way you arrange most of the stories in this your latest book that's feel stuck in the middle and by the way you justify that 'stuckyness' with an apologetic vis a vis explanatory naration inside some of the story.

Evident is hereby quoted from the story number 2, 'Bila senja ingin Pulang' (page 10-18):

<i>"Kisah hidupnya berakhir hampir bahagia. Ketika seorang pelaut asal Inggris mengajaknya menikah. Ia pun menikah dengan lelaki bule itu ... Ia teringat kampung halaman. Ia ingin pulang."</i>

The connection between the first subject (she got married to a foreigner) and the second (a sudden emerging life pulse then followed by an urge to go back home) is somewhat confusing if not forced to be connected.

Another 'stuck on you' moment is boldly sung in the story number 3, 'Mimpi-Mimpi yang Mengajakku Tersesat' (page 19 tro' 27):

<i>"Mohon maklum adanya, cerita ini terpaksa aku ulangi entah untuk berapa kali dan aku potong di bagian mana pun sesukaku..."</i>

Come on, forcing your way into the readers' mind? That's not polite, mistah. If you cut up those forcing lines, the story might be helped a wee bit. Not enough to make it solid, yet cute enough to barely made it. There you go (suppose to, anyway).

The camel is running without humps for most stories of yours in this book. Especially in story number 4, 'Malaikat yang Mencintai Senja' (page 28 tro' 36). Readers whom also moviegoers would quickly reminded by the movie 'City of Angel' when reading this story, and yet also feels that this (the story) is the lame version of it. A bad cover of a popular song. When the angel in the film is fall down to Earth by the great force of Love, your angel is fall just because he loves the evening sun. Maybe there's a metaphor that you tries to play here, but to made an ex-angel dies of suicide? Where are you going actually? You're moving too fast in a blocked scene and leave the readers with a cheesy feeling that need not to be happen if only you put attention to the naration rightly, block per block.

To cut our reviewing short (for we talk about short stories, right?), we conclude that another failing point in your latest book here is that you tries hard to be absurd and gain nothing but a cheap absurdity in return. Your power in storytelling from our close-reading is your ability to captures details of stuff. The way you flourishes the emotional side by putting attention to the background that support the entire story. Not running freely without reservation.

That special ability of yours also forms the emerald stories in the book of 'Kisah Muram...'. Those stories are 'Pak Sobirin, Guru Mengaji', 'Aku Bercerita dari Pesawat yang Sedang Terbang', and 'Tentang Mayat yang Sedang Tersenyum'. It's a sweet coincidence that those stories laid out in order in this book (respectively it's the story number 6, 7, and 8). Those stories captivate the readers' mind quickly and stays there for some times. The reason? The same as what we explain above: The way you captures details and emotional side with a stabile speed and then accelerate smothly without forcing the narative logic pedal. You should stick to that and improve it more in the future.

Waiting for your next work, with hopes of improvement 
&nbsp;

<b><i>The Afriza Review.</b></i>
