The Soponyono Manuscript
<i>by: Ardani Rafiza for The Afriza Review</i>
<p>
<b>episode: Life as an Ocean of Possibilities</b>

Again, I declare my creed: Life is an ocean of possibilities. The way it twist in its unpredictable turns… wow… what else can i do but to be amaze and eulogize of anything in it?

I should say that there’s no absolute guarantee in life, yet to behold that as the truth would simply takes us to the spot of everlasting anguish. The same spot that hit Kierkegaard right on the back of his head. So everyone trying to buy insurance, some even subscribe for membership; either by will or by descendant traits. Just to feel safe and turning away from the eternal anguish? Then it is the major dullness for all subscribers. To run or turn away and not facing the unshaken truth. How then? ah, be patient dear Watson, for nothing so elementary when you open your self for understanding the Grand Concept.

In every good religion there’s always a chance to giving to chances. That’s why there’s prayers: to open the doors of hope in any condition, even in the most pathetic situation. By embracing that, folks with faith are trying their best to make peace with the anguish. Not to evade that is, but more to accept the inalienable truth that chances are not ours to rule. Hope, in this state of apprehension, is something that is always There. The only thing people can expect is to reach for it, by the sanest means possible and eligible to the rules of faith that’s been taken as guidance.

jamais dite jamais. With the believe that all these surroundings are temporal, religion guide the believers to suspend the rightness of Right, simply because it won’t last. The wisest thing to do, for the time being, is to put the Right as a street mark or milestone. To show us the way that’s been used in process of approaching the Promised Land.

In totem pro parte: can’t hate anything for sure, because something I hate could be what I am in the future, and vice versa.

Just embrace everything with a sense of forgiveness, first to the self then to the situation. Have some coffee every evening with something that still in the vague. Breath the air, and release all self detention.

Get to know, to eulogize, and to accept… for all these are all mere possibilities.</p> 
